# Overview

World ID is a privacy-first identity protocol that brings global proof of personhood to the internet. It allows verified users to prove they are a unique person, and optionally prove they are performing a given action only once. This is accomplished with a combination of blockchain technology and [Zero-knowledge Proofs](/advanced/zero-knowledge-proofs).

## How does it work?

A user's World ID lives in their device, and only in their device. The user installs a compatible identity wallet (such as [World App](https://worldcoin.org/download)). A unique and random private key is generated on-device, where it is securely stored. Identity wallets may incorporate their own recovery mechanisms, however Protocol-level recovery is being implemented soon.

From the user's private key, a public _identity commitment_ is generated and published on-chain (currently Polygon), which acts at the source of truth for the protocol. An identity commitment is analogous to a public key in an asymmetric key-pair, or a wallet address, but in the World ID protocol this value is not broadly shared.The private key is used as input to each World ID verification, specifically as part of the [ZKP](/advanced/zero-knowledge-proofs).

The user's wallet (e.g. World App) generates a ZKP for every verification a user makes. Verifications cannot be linked across applications or actions, which means that the user's privacy is cryptographically protected.

![TODO]

After a user verifies, a _nullifier hash_ is returned to the application, and can be treated as a user ID. Nullifiers are unique to the application, and cannot be correlating, even amongst colluding applications. If a developer wants users to be able to take additional actions in a privacy-preserving way, they can do so with [Anonymous Actions](/id/anonymous-actions).

## Developer Portal

Applications within the World ID protocol must first be registered with the [Worldcoin Developer Portal](https://developer.worldcoin.org). The portal provides a simple UI to manage applications, actions, and user metrics. The portal is the easist way to verify the proofs returned by [IDKit](/idkit/index), and performs much of the on-chain lookups for the integrating application.

Additionally, those familar with OpenID Connect will be please to hear that World ID can serve as your [Identity Provider](/id/sign-in)! We support all of the most common integrations, such as Auth0 and Cloudflare.

## Proof-of-Personhood

The protocol enables many usecases for these new types of credentials. A user's World app, once verified by an Orb, can be used to assert to any application that the holder is human beyond-a-doubt. All verified user's must be unique, thanks to the advanced imaging methods used by the [Orb hardware](https://github.com/worldcoin/orb-hardware).

---

## How it works?

- World ID lives in the user's device. Generated by the user's device when they create an account.
- Whenever a World ID is used, ZKPs are generated on device.
- The source of truth is the World ID Protocol which lives on chain.
- Conceptual diagram.
  - App requests sign in with World ID or anonymous action
  - World App generates ZKP & User ID (called `nullifier_hash`)
  - App calls Developer Portal to verify
  - Dev Portal verifies with smart contract on-chain
  - Verified / not verified
- The User ID (nullifier hash) will always be the same for the same World ID and the same app. Apps can treat it as a unique user identifier. Yet this identifier is privacy preserving as it is not shared across applications. Every application will get a different ID and IDs are unlinkable except to the user.

## Developer Portal

- The Developer Portal helps manage actions and apps. Apps are registered here.
- The Developer Portal is the easiest way to verify World ID proofs, as it abstracts the complexity of verifying information on-chain.
- The Developer Portal is the Identity Provider (IdP) for Sign in with World ID.

## Proof-of-Personhood

- App also receives information on the verified credentials authorized by the user.
- App can use the Orb credential to assert someone is a human. For example it can be used so a user can only create one account.
- Orb credential asserts humanness and can be used for uniqueness.
- For anonymous actions, using the Orb credential with the unique user ID can be used to ensure someone is doing an action only once.
  - Voting example. App = app_1234; Action = vote_proposal_1 -> nullifier_hash=0x123

## Enrollment

- Getting a World ID can be as easy as downloading the World App and creating an account.
  - In the future, other clients will support World ID.
- The user can then add credentials to their World ID. Currently two credentials are supported.
- Credentials are issued by third-parties, not the Protocol. Currently the phone & Orb credentials are issued by TFH
